---
title: Gungnir
item_id: 244
category: Weapon
item_subtypes:
  - Spear
item_rarity: Legendary
item_attunement: true
item_requirement:
item_curse: true
item_classes:
  - Fighter
  - Paladin
item_school: Divination
item_role:
  - Attack
item_damage:
  - Radiant
tags:
  - Thrown
  - Ethereal
  - Invisibility
  - Mythology
item_idea: Norse mythology
item_co_creator:
item_updated:
last_modified_at:
---

This spear is perfectly balanced, it's shaft made from solid oak, and the tip gleams in the faintest of light. On a successful attack you can choose to deal either Piercing or Radiant damage and on a critical hit it deals an additional 2d6 Radiant damage.
While attuned with this spear it has the property Thrown (60/180). If you throw and miss it immediately returns to your hand, but on a successful attack it returns at the beginning of your next turn. Additionally, you score a critical hit on a roll of 16 or higher when throwing this spear. This spear can not be broken except by a deity or avatar of a deity. 

### Eyes of Odin

Each of your eyes is able to see things you weren't able to before by closing the other. If you look through your left eye you are able to read all written languages, and if you look through your right eye you can see ethereal and invisible creatures up to 60 feet away.

<!--excerpt-->
<div class="curse">
**Curse.** When you attune to this weapon you are wracked with immense pain in your right eye and when you are finally able to open it a void filled with stars gazes back from within your socket. When you look through your right eye you see everything as if viewing it from the Ethereal Plane. Your eye can not be restored except by intervention of a deity, but in return you keep the Eye of Odin feature even after un-attuning from this weapon.
</div>
